# Exerceise2-TREECHECK
The task is divided into two parts. 1. Read in a tree and output statistical information 2. Search in the tree
**Exercise 2 - TREECHECK**

**Task:**
Work in pairs on the following programming example. The choice of programming language is up to you (C, C++, C#, Java). However, you need to implement the data structure yourself!

**Problem Statement:**
The task is divided into two parts:

1. Read a tree and output statistical information.
2. Search within the tree.

**Part 1: Read a Tree**
Implement a program that checks whether a binary tree is an AVL tree and outputs statistical data about the tree. The main program reads integer key values from a text file (filename provided as a parameter) and constructs a binary search tree using these values. Duplicate key values are discarded during insertion.

Additionally, develop recursive functions that output the balance factor for each node in the binary search tree and thereby verify whether the given tree is an AVL tree. If the AVL condition is violated in a node (balance factor > 1 or < -1), this should be indicated separately.

Furthermore, statistical data of the tree (smallest key value, largest key value, average key value) should be output. These data should also be calculated through a traversal of the tree and not determined from the input file.

Before implementing the program, consider how the recursive functions need to be structured (termination condition, parameters, return value, etc.) and document your considerations. Also, estimate the complexity of the functions using O-notation in terms of the number N of integer values in the input file.

**Program Usage:**
The program should be called as follows:
```
treecheck filename
```

**Input File Format:**
The input file is a text file containing one key per line. All keys are integer values, and any number of keys is allowed. Example:
```
5
3
17
9
23
54
11
79
30
12
```

**Data Structure:**
Define a suitable data structure for a node of the binary search tree. In C, the structure might look like this:
```c
struct tnode {
 int key;
 struct tnode *left;
 struct tnode *right;
};
```

The balance factor of a node `bal(k)` is defined as:
```
bal(k) = height(right subtree) - height(left subtree).
```

**Output:**
For each node, output the balance factor in the following format:
```
bal(key) = x
```
If the AVL condition is violated, indicate it with the following output:
```
bal(key) = x (AVL violation!)
```
After that, output whether the tree is an AVL tree (i.e., whether all nodes satisfy the AVL condition):
```
AVL: yes
```
if it's an AVL tree, or
```
AVL: no
```
if it's not an AVL tree.

Finally, output statistical data:
```
min: x, max: y, avg: z
```
Reference output for the provided test data:
```
bal(79) = 0
bal(30) = 0 bal(54) = 0
bal(23) = 2 (AVL violation!)
bal(12) = 0
bal(11) = 1
bal(9) = 2 (AVL violation!)
bal(17) = 0
bal(3) = 0
bal(5) = 3 (AVL violation!)
AVL: no
min: 3, max: 79, avg: 24.3
The output generated by your program should follow this format!
```
